>> Jafar Husain: Actually I don't know how
many people are familiar with the idea of
an image viewer.
But for those of you out there.
Who use Reddit.
It's got a lot of the, what I think
are called picture oriented stuff.
It's where folks just post pictures.
It's where your time
goes to die in general.
You get to browse those forever, right.
I know I love doing it.
And after a while I thought this would be
a pretty cool little app to build as part
of demonstrating just how
powerful RX could be.
The idea's pretty simple.
There's a drop down list here where you
can pick between different sub Reddits,
ie, different.
They're like a little bit like,
it you're not familiar with Reddit
they're like a little bit like channels.
Like on a TV, you pick different
subreddits and then you can click
Next to go to the next image and
Back to go to the previous image.
So this is a app that seems really,
really simple but
it's actually a lot more
complex than one might think.
Just so you know, I've built you a little
helper function in the index.js file,
just to get the images for
a particular sub.
So it's gonna basically create
an observable that will just give
you a single array of the first 200
images available for that subreddit.
But it turns out that
although this seems simple,
there's a lot of considerations
we have to think through.
Like for example, some of these
images might not be valid, right.
So you might go to them and
you might get an error.
In which case,
you'd wanna display an error placeholder.
Another thing you might wanna do is you
might wanna actually confirm that it's
a real image and
fully preload it before displaying it.
Because if you try and
display a large image, the screen will
just go black while it gets loaded.
So when we hit next, what we'd like
to do is preload the image, and
once it's preloaded, then and only then do
we want to display it over the old image.
Also, it would be nice, and most of
the time, when you're building an app for
UX purposes, to display a progress bar.
Like, maybe when somebody clicks next or
changes a sub,
we can display a little progress
bar on top of the images.
Just to show the user
that they've responded.
So that's basically in general
how we want the app to work.
Also you never know.
Reddit can go down, so
if an error occurs we want to after
maybe a reasonable number of retries.
We'd want to show the user an error
message and tell them to come back and
try later.
So that's basically kind of
the app that we're building.
Now, you could think this
is a pretty simple app but
it practices actually a ton, well a ton.
There's quite a few things that could
go wrong when you are building an app
like this.
Can anybody like before I show you what
are some of the race conditions that you
could run into?
>> Student1: You changed subreddits
before the image is loaded?
>> Jafar Husain: Sorry, yeah, changed
that so I've begun loading an image, so
I pressed next, and
I began loading an image.
And then I changed subreddits,
and now we have a race, right?
We might get the first image from
the new subreddit really fast, but
the image we were loading
before takes a long time, and
we end up showing the old image on top
of the new image from the new subreddit.
So there's a classic example of erase,
right?
What happens if?
Yeah?
>> Student2: The user
attempts to click more than once?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah,
if they click next 50 times, I mean,
unless we've some sort of controlling of
the erase there, they'll just get whatever
image happens to load last, not the last
image they told to load, right?
We wanna avoid concurrently
loading all 50 images.
Anything else?
>> Student2: They click the back button?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, back button, same
problem, or back, next, back, next, back,
next, next, next, back, back, right?
That's where you can get into some
problems, so you need to make sure.
And what we'd also like to do,
I mean just for usability,
while a new sub is being loaded.
We might wanna stop as a result.
We might wanna stop responding
to the back and next buttons.
That might be a way in which I
would handle this to make sure that
they don't start navigating while they
switch the sub, until a new sub comes up.